# Linear-Regression-Baseball-Analytics

For this project, I am using data from Lahman’s Database, which is an extensive collection of Major League Baseball statistics that ranges from 1871 to 2020 and covers pitching, hitting, and fielding statistics for every MLB player in history. It also includes statistics about coaches, managers, Hall of Famers, and even every MLB park. I have extracted a list of 500 pitchers throughout MLB history and I am using the total number of wins that they earned throughout their entire career as my response variable. I am using a group of pitching statistics recorded for each player as my design matrix. The goal of my project is to determine which pitching statistics have the most predictive power over the total number of wins a pitcher will achieve in their career, and I want to create a model that can predict the player’s total wins using only a few of these forecasted statistics. The purpose of this model will be to assist managers in deciding which pitchers to keep on their team’s roster and which players to cut. MLB pitchers are often some of the highest paid athletes in the world, so it is of crucial importance that when a manager decides to keep an expensive player, they can be confident that they will receive a return on investment, meaning that the pitcher will accumulate a sum of wins over a certain period of time. I first performed Simple Linear Regression on a select few statistics that I gathered, then I moved on to a more comprehensive method of Multiple Linear Regression to analyze my data.
